Welcome to VIM for aspiring #ithipsters.

#foo

# Basic navigation

In this lesson you will learn to navigate around a text document.
Navigation is also called movement-commands.

Use h/j/k/l to navigate this document.

h: left
j: down
k: up
l: right

To jump forward one word at a time press 'w', to jump one word backward press 'b'.  

You can also use count-modifiers to any of the movement commands.
For example, to jump 3 lines down, issue the command '3j'.

To go to the beginning of a line press '0', and use '$' to go to the end of a line.
To navigate to the beginning of the document issue the command 'gg'. Capital G gets you to the end of the document.
If you want to go directly to a line, issue ':' + the line number, like this ':15'.

You can also do a quick search forward or backward for a character. Use 'f' followed by the character you want to search for.
Example: To move the cursor to the next occurence of the letter 'u', you issue 'fu'.
To search for the *previous* occurence of 'u', we can issue 'Fu'.
When you search with 'f' or 'F' the jump is inclusive. If you want to move the
cursor to the position *before* the match, you must use 't' or 'T'.


Before you move onto the next lesson, please get somewhat familiar with navigating with the different navigation motions.


When you are ready to move on to the next lesson, please do the following.
- make sure you are not accidentally in some other mode than normal mode by pressing 'Esc'.
- open the next lesson by issuing the command ':e! lesson02/insert-mode.txt' 
- (This opens a new file, ':' to enter command-mode, 'e' to edit a file, '!' to ignore changes)


Below this line is some text you can play with.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

"You gettee in," he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and 
charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment. For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal. What's all this fuss I have been 
making about, thought I to myself the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.
Better sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.

"Landlord," said I, "tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.
But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me. It's dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured."

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned me to get into bedrolling over to one side as much as to say"I won't touch a leg of ye."

"Good night, landlord," said I, "you may go."

I turned in, and never slept better in my life.

Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost thought I had been his wife.
The counterpane was of patchwork, full of odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth 
of a figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shadeowing I suppose to his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade,
his shirt sleeves irregularly rolled up at various timesthis same arm of his, I say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.
Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together;
and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.

My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.
The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or otherI think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,my mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney 
and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully.
But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.
